# Coding-Java-Questions
This repo will have some of the famous Java programming question's answer (as form of code)

## About Project
Project mainly focus the development of strong database of JAVA Programming Learning and Training. The idea of this repository is aimed at creating a one-stop shop for all common and most asked questions about Java programming language from learning prespective.

## About JAVA Language 
JAVA was developed by Sun Microsystems Inc in the year 1991, later acquired by Oracle Corporation.
It was developedby James Gosling and Patrik Naughton.

JAVA is a class-based, object-oriented programming language and is designed to have as few implementation 
dependencies as possible. Java applications are compiled to byte code that can run on any java virtual machine.

## Basic Terminologies of Java

`1.` Java Development Kit (JDK) : It is a complete java development kit that includes everthing including compiler, Java run time environment (JRE), debuggers, Samples, Documentation etc.
`2.` Java Virtual Machine (JVM) :  JVM executes the bytecode generated by the Java compiler.
`3.` Bytecode by Compiler : Javac compiler of JDK compiles the java source code into bytecode so that it can be executed by JVM. It is saved as .class file by the compiler.
`4.` Java Runtime Environment (JRE) : JAVA Development kit includes JRE, to run the java programs after compilation JRE is needed.
`5.` Garbage Collector : For memory management JVM has a program that take care to recollect the memory that are not referenced. This program is known as Garbage collector.
`6.` ClassPath : This is a file path where java runtime and java compiler search for .class files and external libraries to load.

## Project Usage
Project is helpful for the students and professional for JAVA skill development. To learn how to apply the concepts of language effectively.

## How To Use Project
Install the JDK from the Oracle website.
 `http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html`
Identify the installation location of the JDK.
Edit the System Environment Variables.
Create a new variable named JAVA_HOME, and set the installation location of the JDK as the value.
Edit the PATH variable.
Make sure to click "Okay" on all of the Environment Variables to save the new settings.
Open up Command Prompt.
Verify the Java compiler is recognized by executing `javac -version` and hit enter.
Install GIT source version control from `https://git-scm.com/downloads`
Download the Repo using GIT command - `git clone https://github.com/neerajjsk/Coding-Java-Questions.git`
Enter your Github details and Repo is downladed
Run a Java program.
    Copy the sample program from our repository and save it to a file: `https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/getStarted/cupojava/win32.html`
    In Command Prompt, navigate to where to saved the file.
    Run javac `program_name.java` (assuming your file is named `program_name.java`) to compile your Java source file into a class file.
    If you see an error, you likely have a bug in your program or haven't navigated to where your file is located.
    Run java `program_name` to run your compiled Java program.
Contribute to Repository
    Fork the repo from `https://github.com/neerajjsk/Coding-Java-Questions.git` to your github account.
    `git clone repo_address` the forked repo
    Take Latest Checkout of Repo using -- `git pull`
    Apply your change or add a change
    `git add .` - Add your changes to stage 
    `git commit` - Commit your change locally
    `git push` - Psuh your changes to your forked repo
    Raise the pull request on the Github web interface for `https://github.com/neerajjsk/Coding-Java-Questions.git` master.

## How To Get Help
User can get help by contacting us via message on our github page - `https://neerajjsk.github.io/Coding-Java-Questions/`

## Maintainers and Top Contributers of the project
Naveen Kumar Chauhan - Key contributer and Lead Integrator with Experience on Algorithm Development and Programming
Neeraj Choudhary - Key contributer and Lead Developer with Experience on Software Development and Programming
Naveen Chakravarthy Balasubramanian - Key contributer and Lead Developer with Experience on Software Development and Programming

## Contact us on GitHub Page 
`https://neerajjsk.github.io/Coding-Java-Questions/`